230_25F_syllabus.md, before:

Penn State, University Park, Fall 2025

# MATH 230 — MULTIVARIABLE CALCULUS

*This document is an addendum to the syllabus which can be found in the "course administration" module in our [Canvas](https://canvas.psu.edu) course.*

*The instructor reserves the right to make changes to this document during the semester.*

## Space-Time Coordinates

| Section | Days | Time | Room |
| :----: | :--: | :--: | :--: |
| MATH 230.006 | Mon Wed Thu Fri | 09:05 — 09:55 | Osmond Lab 105 |
| MATH 230.010 | Mon Wed Thu Fri | 12:20 — 13:10 | Hammond Building 304 (MWF), Osmond Lab 103 (Thu) |

Classes begin on Monday August 25, 2025 and end on Friday December 12, 2025.

Thanksgiving break: November 24-28, 2025.

All electronic devices must be silenced during lectures.
Disrupting class in any way will not be tolerated.

## Instructor

Professor Mathieu Stiénon

  - Do contact me by email: [mps16@psu.edu](mailto:mps16@psu.edu). *Please include __MATH 230__ in the subject of your message.*
  - **Do not** contact me from within [Canvas](https://canvas.psu.edu). *Just don't do it. Thank you.*

## Office Hours

Tentatively scheduled on **Wednesdays from 10:10 to 12:00**.

Location: **McAllister Building 325**

## Canvas, Gradescope, and Achieve

We will use [Canvas](https://canvas.psu.edu) and [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com) [(iOS)](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/gradescope/id1563280912) [(android)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.gradescope.student&gl=US) to administer assignments, record scores and share course materials.

[IT support](https://it.psu.edu/get-support) is available 24/7.

[Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com) is a website designed to streamline the process of submitting, grading, and providing feedback on assignments. It allows students to submit their work online. Gradescope is widely used in higher education to improve the grading process.

To get access to our course on [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com), click on the "Gradescope" link in the navigation menu on the left in our [Canvas](https://canvas.psu.edu) course.

Install the **Gradescope mobile app** [(iOS)](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/gradescope/id1563280912) [(android)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.gradescope.student&hl=en_US) on your phone and/or tablet. You will use it to scan your homework and submit it for credit.

Once an assignment is graded, the scores are available in [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com).

[How to submit homework on the Gradescope mobile app](https://youtu.be/quBWbQ5opT0?feature=shared)

[How to submit homework on the Gradescope website](https://youtu.be/nksyA0s-Geo?feature=shared)

[Using Gradescope as a Student](https://guides.gradescope.com/hc/en-us/categories/21540043398413-Student-Center)

To get set up on Achieve, follow the "Student Registration - Start Here" link in the "Achieve = Online Homework" module you will find on the homepage of our [Canvas](https://canvas.psu.edu) course.

## Instructions for Assignment Submission on Gradescope

1. Download the PDF of the assignment from [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com).
2. Solve the problems **using a black pen** either on the printout or on blank sheets of **white letter-size printer paper**. *Show all your work and explain your work briefly in full sentences. Final answers without supporting work and explanations will not receive credit. Write cleanly! If your work is not easily readable and intelligible, you will loose points!*
3. Scan your work, and submit it **as one single PDF file** in [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com). If you'd rather work directly on your pen-enabled tablet, make sure to submit all layers of the PDF document.
4. In Gradescope, once you have uploaded your PDF file, **you must match the pages of your document to the questions of the assignment**. Otherwise, your submission will be considered incomplete and will receive a zero score.
5. Check that your submission is complete and that you have submitted all pages. Unreadable work will result in a zero score.
6. Assignments dropped in the instructor's mailbox, sent to his email address, or slipped under his office door are not acceptable, will not be acknowledged, will be ignored, and will not be graded. You must submit your work through [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com).

## Required Textbook

See the information in the "department syllabus" located in the "course information" module in our [Canvas](https://canvas.psu.edu) course.

## Class Attendance

Regular class attendance is one of the most important ways that students learn and understand course materials. It is a critical element of student success. **Accordingly, it is the policy of the University that class attendance is expected.** Students should attend every scheduled class and should be held responsible for all work covered in the course.

- [University Faculty Senate Policy 42-27](https://senate.psu.edu/policies-and-rules-for-undergraduate-students/42-00-acquisition-of-credit/#42-27)
- [Academic Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual, E-11: Class Attendance and Evaluation of Student Performance](https://aappm.psu.edu/policy/e-11-class-attendance)
- [University Excused Class Absence Form](https://aappm.psu.edu/files/class_absence_v3.pdf)

## Copyright and Intellectual Property

All course materials students receive or to which students have online access are protected by copyright laws.
Students may use course materials and make copies for their own use as needed, but unauthorized distribution and/or uploading of materials without the instructor’s express permission is strictly prohibited.
University Policy [AD 40: Recording of Classroom Activities and Note-Taking Services](https://policy.psu.edu/policies/ad40) addresses this issue.
Students who engage in the unauthorized distribution of copyrighted materials may be held in violation of the University’s [Code of Conduct](https://studentaffairs.psu.edu/support-safety-conduct/student-conduct/code-conduct) and/or liable under Federal and State laws.

A rising trend across the University is the posting and/or retrieval of material from course-share sites.
Generally speaking, the uploading of materials to a course-share site is viewed as an Intellectual Property violation, and the downloading and use of materials from a course-share site could be a violation of academic integrity.
If you have questions regarding the specific use of such a site, seek clarification directly from your instructor.

## Student Class Recordings

Students are not allowed to record class sessions without permission.

According to University Policy, students must get express permission from their instructor to record class sessions. Screenshots showing instructors and students are considered recordings.
Even if permission is granted, student-initiated recordings must be used only for educational purposes for the students enrolled in the initiating student’s class.
Recordings may be used only during the period in which the student is enrolled in the class.
Authorized student-initiated recordings may not be posted or shared in any fashion outside of the class, including online or through other media, without the express written consent of the course instructor or appropriate University administrator.
Students who engage in the unauthorized distribution of class recordings may be held in violation of the University’s [Code of Conduct](https://studentaffairs.psu.edu/support-safety-conduct/student-conduct/code-conduct), and/or liable under Federal and State laws.

Commit message:

I've added a list of suggested exercises for MATH 230.

230_25F_syllabus.md, after:

Penn State, University Park, Fall 2025

# MATH 230 — MULTIVARIABLE CALCULUS

*This document is an addendum to the syllabus which can be found in the "course administration" module in our [Canvas](https://canvas.psu.edu) course.*

*The instructor reserves the right to make changes to this document during the semester.*

## Space-Time Coordinates

| Section | Days | Time | Room |
| :----: | :--: | :--: | :--: |
| MATH 230.006 | Mon Wed Thu Fri | 09:05 — 09:55 | Osmond Lab 105 |
| MATH 230.010 | Mon Wed Thu Fri | 12:20 — 13:10 | Hammond Building 304 (MWF), Osmond Lab 103 (Thu) |

Classes begin on Monday August 25, 2025 and end on Friday December 12, 2025.

Thanksgiving break: November 24-28, 2025.

All electronic devices must be silenced during lectures.
Disrupting class in any way will not be tolerated.

## Instructor

Professor Mathieu Stiénon

  - Do contact me by email: [mps16@psu.edu](mailto:mps16@psu.edu). *Please include __MATH 230__ in the subject of your message.*
  - **Do not** contact me from within [Canvas](https://canvas.psu.edu). *Just don't do it. Thank you.*

## Office Hours

Tentatively scheduled on **Wednesdays from 10:10 to 12:00**.

Location: **McAllister Building 325**

## Canvas, Gradescope, and Achieve

We will use [Canvas](https://canvas.psu.edu) and [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com) [(iOS)](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/gradescope/id1563280912) [(android)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.gradescope.student&gl=US) to administer assignments, record scores and share course materials.

[IT support](https://it.psu.edu/get-support) is available 24/7.

[Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com) is a website designed to streamline the process of submitting, grading, and providing feedback on assignments. It allows students to submit their work online. Gradescope is widely used in higher education to improve the grading process.

To get access to our course on [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com), click on the "Gradescope" link in the navigation menu on the left in our [Canvas](https://canvas.psu.edu) course.

Install the **Gradescope mobile app** [(iOS)](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/gradescope/id1563280912) [(android)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.gradescope.student&hl=en_US) on your phone and/or tablet. You will use it to scan your homework and submit it for credit.

Once an assignment is graded, the scores are available in [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com).

[How to submit homework on the Gradescope mobile app](https://youtu.be/quBWbQ5opT0?feature=shared)

[How to submit homework on the Gradescope website](https://youtu.be/nksyA0s-Geo?feature=shared)

[Using Gradescope as a Student](https://guides.gradescope.com/hc/en-us/categories/21540043398413-Student-Center)

To get set up on Achieve, follow the "Student Registration - Start Here" link in the "Achieve = Online Homework" module you will find on the homepage of our [Canvas](https://canvas.psu.edu) course.

## Instructions for Assignment Submission on Gradescope

1. Download the PDF of the assignment from [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com).
2. Solve the problems **using a black pen** either on the printout or on blank sheets of **white letter-size printer paper**. *Show all your work and explain your work briefly in full sentences. Final answers without supporting work and explanations will not receive credit. Write cleanly! If your work is not easily readable and intelligible, you will loose points!*
3. Scan your work, and submit it **as one single PDF file** in [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com). If you'd rather work directly on your pen-enabled tablet, make sure to submit all layers of the PDF document.
4. In Gradescope, once you have uploaded your PDF file, **you must match the pages of your document to the questions of the assignment**. Otherwise, your submission will be considered incomplete and will receive a zero score.
5. Check that your submission is complete and that you have submitted all pages. Unreadable work will result in a zero score.
6. Assignments dropped in the instructor's mailbox, sent to his email address, or slipped under his office door are not acceptable, will not be acknowledged, will be ignored, and will not be graded. You must submit your work through [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com).

## Required Textbook

See the information in the "department syllabus" located in the "course information" module in our [Canvas](https://canvas.psu.edu) course.

Rogawski, Adams, & Franzosa, "Calculus: Early Transcendentals", 4th edition, (C) 2019 W. H. Freeman and Company

Here is a [list of suggested exercises](230_suggested_exercises.html) from the textbook.

## Class Attendance

Regular class attendance is one of the most important ways that students learn and understand course materials. It is a critical element of student success. **Accordingly, it is the policy of the University that class attendance is expected.** Students should attend every scheduled class and should be held responsible for all work covered in the course.

- [University Faculty Senate Policy 42-27](https://senate.psu.edu/policies-and-rules-for-undergraduate-students/42-00-acquisition-of-credit/#42-27)
- [Academic Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual, E-11: Class Attendance and Evaluation of Student Performance](https://aappm.psu.edu/policy/e-11-class-attendance)
- [University Excused Class Absence Form](https://aappm.psu.edu/files/class_absence_v3.pdf)

## Copyright and Intellectual Property

All course materials students receive or to which students have online access are protected by copyright laws.
Students may use course materials and make copies for their own use as needed, but unauthorized distribution and/or uploading of materials without the instructor’s express permission is strictly prohibited.
University Policy [AD 40: Recording of Classroom Activities and Note-Taking Services](https://policy.psu.edu/policies/ad40) addresses this issue.
Students who engage in the unauthorized distribution of copyrighted materials may be held in violation of the University’s [Code of Conduct](https://studentaffairs.psu.edu/support-safety-conduct/student-conduct/code-conduct) and/or liable under Federal and State laws.

A rising trend across the University is the posting and/or retrieval of material from course-share sites.
Generally speaking, the uploading of materials to a course-share site is viewed as an Intellectual Property violation, and the downloading and use of materials from a course-share site could be a violation of academic integrity.
If you have questions regarding the specific use of such a site, seek clarification directly from your instructor.

## Student Class Recordings

Students are not allowed to record class sessions without permission.

According to University Policy, students must get express permission from their instructor to record class sessions. Screenshots showing instructors and students are considered recordings.
Even if permission is granted, student-initiated recordings must be used only for educational purposes for the students enrolled in the initiating student’s class.
Recordings may be used only during the period in which the student is enrolled in the class.
Authorized student-initiated recordings may not be posted or shared in any fashion outside of the class, including online or through other media, without the express written consent of the course instructor or appropriate University administrator.
Students who engage in the unauthorized distribution of class recordings may be held in violation of the University’s [Code of Conduct](https://studentaffairs.psu.edu/support-safety-conduct/student-conduct/code-conduct), and/or liable under Federal and State laws.
